Driving hazard
Use of AirPodsPro while operating a vehicle 
is not recommended and is illegal in some 
areas. Check and obey the applicable laws 
and regulations on the use of earphones while 
operating a vehicle. Be careful and attentive 
while driving. Stop listening to your audio device 
if you find it disruptive or distracting while
operating any type of vehicle or performing any 
activity that requires your full attention.
Choking hazard
AirPodsPro, the case, and small parts included 
with AirPodsPro may present a choking hazard 
or cause other injury to small children. Keep 
them away from small children.
Medical device interference 
AirPodsPro and case contain components 
and radios that emit electromagnetic fields. 
AirPodsPro and case also contain magnets. 
These electromagnetic fields and magnets may 
interfere with pacemakers, defibrillators, or 
other medical devices. Maintain a safe distance
of separation between your medical device and 
AirPodsPro and case. Consult your physician 
and medical device manufacturer for information 
specific to your medical device. Stop using 
AirPodsPro and case if you suspect they are 
interfering with your pacemaker, defibrillator, or 
any other medical device.
Skin irritation
AirPodsPro can lead to skin irritation if not
properly cleaned. Clean AirPodsPro regularly 
with a soft lint-free cloth. For additional 
information on how to clean your device and 
other tips to avoid skin irritation, go to 
apple.com/support. If a skin problem develops, 
discontinue use. If the problem persists, consult
a physician. 
Electrostatic shock
When using AirPodsPro in areas where the air 
is very dry, it is easy to build up static electricity 
and possible for your ears to receive a small
electrostatic discharge from AirPodsPro. To 
minimize the risk of electrostatic discharge, 
avoid using AirPodsPro in extremely dry 
environments, or touch a grounded unpainted 
metal object before inserting AirPodsPro. 
Important handling information
Discoloration of the Lightning connector 
and/or of the bottom of the stem of your
AirPodsPro after regular use is normal. Dirt, 
debris, and exposure to moisture may cause 
discoloration. For information about exposure to 
liquid and cleaning AirPodsPro, the case, and
the Lightning connector, see apple.com/support.
Support
For support and troubleshooting information, 
and user discussion boards, go to 
apple.com/support.
Class 1 Laser information
This device is classified as a Class 1 Laser 
product per IEC60825-1 Ed. 3. This device 
complies with 21 CFR 1040.10 and 1040.11,
except for conformance with IEC 60825-1 Ed. 
3., as described in Laser Notice No. 56, dated 
May 8, 2019. Caution: This device contains one 
or more lasers. Use other than as described 
in the user guide, repair, or disassembly may 
cause damage, which could result in hazardous 


© 2019 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. The Bluetooth® word mark and logos are registered trademarks 
owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and are used under license. Designed by Apple in California. Printed in XXXX.  
ZM034-03648-A
Charge wirelessly.
AirPods Pro charge in the case. Place 
case with status light facing up on a 
Qi-certified charger. Or charge using 
the Lightning connector. 
Rechargez sans fil.
Les AirPods Pro se rechargent dans le 
boîtier. Placez le boîtier sur un chargeur 
certifié Qi, voyant d’état vers le haut. 
Vous pouvez aussi les recharger à l’aide
du connecteur Lightning.
Kabellos laden.
Die AirPodsPro werden im Case 
aufgeladen. Platziere das Case so auf 
einem Qi-zertifizierten Ladegerät, 
dass die Statusanzeige nach oben 
weist. Oder verwende zum Laden den 
Lightning Connector. 
Press and hold.
Switch between Active Noise 
Cancellation and Transparency mode.
Maintenez appuyé.
Basculez entre le mode «Réduction du 
bruit» et le mode «Transparence».
Drücken und halten.
Zwischen aktiver Geräuschunterdrückung 
und Transparenzmodus wechseln.
Noise Control in Control Center.
Touch and hold volume to see
Noise Control options.
Contrôlez le bruit dans Centre 
de contrôle.
Maintenez la touche du volume 
appuyée pour afficher les options 
«Contrôle du bruit».
Geräuschkontrolle im Kontrollzentrum.
Finger auf „Lautstärke“ 
legen, um Optionen für die 
Geräuschkontrolle anzuzeigen.
Press to play or pause.
Appuyez pour écouter ou mettre 
en pause.
Drücken, um Wiedergabe zu starten 
oder anzuhalten.
Double-press to skip forward. 
Appuyez deux fois pour avancer. 
Zweimal drücken, um nach vorne 
zu springen. 
Triple-press to skip back. 
Appuyez trois fois pour revenir 
en arrière. 
Dreimal drücken, um zurückzuspringen. 
Say “Hey Siri” to activate Siri. 
Dites «Dis Siri» pour activer Siri. 
Sage „Hey Siri“, um Siri zu aktivieren. 
100%
Siri





