custom FIT 
MANUAL

PAGE 2
PAGE 3
INDEX
ABOUT NORDICA
Anatomy of the foot
  PATHOLOGY OF THE FOOT
  KNEE & FOOT DEVIATIONS
Ski Boot Construction       
Nordica Fit Liner  Program
PRIMALOFT®
FOOTBEDS
InfraRed Fit Technology Instructions
  InfraRed
  CUSTOM CORK FIT TECHNOLOGY PROCEDURE
  FAQ: Tri-Fit Customization Technology
5
6
8
12
14
18
19
20
23
24
26
27

PAGE 4
PAGE 5
ABOUT NORDICA
ABOUT 
NORDICA
It’s for all who don’t just ski,
but who love to ski.  For every skier who 
makes each run one to remember.  And 
for the people who pass their powder-packed
hearts down from one generation to the next.
We’re for any and every skier who lives for
 all-mountain adventure.
This goes out to the boots and the skis that
take us out on  journeys farther than we ever
thought we could go, and bring us closer together than 
we ever believed we could be.
Together we have created family and
fellowship.  Even in the wind-blown face
of adversity, we have never given up and 
we have never given in.
Here’s to following our own compass no matter
where it takes us . To doing things our way.
We are Nordica.  Trusted since 1939.
TOGETHER WE ARE FIT 
FOR THE LONG RUN.
  
BRAND VALUES
INTEGRITY 
LOYALTY 
COURAGE 
OPTIMISM

PAGE 6
PAGE 7
Anatomy of the foot
Foot Anatomy & Foot Bones
At Nordica we have always been focused on meeting the demands of skiers. We strive to design ski 
boots that are modern, precise and comfortable. As ski constructions and shapes have evolved, so has 
the demand for ski boots that perform at a higher level, in turn making the ski boot a more important 
factor in modern skiing. 
To create this manual, Nordica worked in conjunction with S.I.T.E.M.S.H, the International Society of 
Winter Sport Medicine and Traumatology to illustrate the principal characteristics of the foot and how 
to best optimize a ski boots comfort and performance. 
Aside from structurally supporting the skeleton and making walking movements possible, the foot 
plays an integral role in the body’s ability to remain balanced. 
Through proprioceptive stimuli the feet register information derived from the ground and relay it to the 
brain. They then receive orders from the brain that control walking and balance.
When a standing position is assumed, support is provided by three main areas: the heel (A), as well as 
the first (B) and the fifth (C) metatarsal. The five toes (D) also rest on the ground.
A
A
A
B
B
B
C
C
C
D
D
D
Anatomy of the foot
A
F
H
C
A. Ankle
B. External (lateral) Malleolus
C. Internal (medial) Malleolus
D. Achilles’ Tendon
A. Posterior Tarsus:
1. Calcaneum
2. Navicular	
3. Talus
b. Anterior tarsus:
4. Scaphoid
5. Cuboid
C. Metatarsus:
6. 3 Cuneiforms
7. 5 Metatarsals
D. Toes:
8. 14 Phalanges
1
1
2
3
3
4
4
5
6
7
8
B
G
D
E
E. Heel
F. Arch of the Foot
G. Instep
H. Forefoot
The foot, attached to the leg by the ankle joint, serves two functions:
• Holds the weight of the body and transfers energy for movements.
• Allows dynamic movement inside the ski boot as a result of multiple joints working in conjunction.
A
B
C
D

PAGE 8
PAGE 9
DISORDERS OF THE FRONT OF THE FOOT
This is an inflammation along the edge of the nail. The result is a swelling, 
termed “granuloma”, which, in many instances, becomes infected. This 
inflammation may be caused by boots that are too narrow in the forefoot, or 
are too short in length, depriving the toes of the space they need.
Solution: Lengthening and/or widen the toe box of the shell.
The mechanical causes are the same here as in the last case. The 
difference lies in the fact that the fifth metatarsal is displaced outwards 
from the center.
Solution: Widening of the shell in that area.
This is associated with increased prominence of the first metatarsal head. 
The cause may be pronounced medial displacement of the first metatarsal, 
or pronounced lateral deviation of the big toe. Abrasion between the 
metatarsal head and the shoe irritates the skin and subcutaneous tissue 
resulting in the release of reactive fluid.  Bursitis takes the form of an 
inflamed swelling.
This is basically associated with increased prominence of the first 
metatarsal head. The cause may be pronounced medial displacement 
of the first metatarsal, or pronounced lateral deviation of the big toe. 
Abrasion between the metatarsal head and the shoe irritates the skin and 
subcutaneous tissue resulting in the release of reactive fluid.
Bursitis takes the form of an inflamed swelling.
Ingrown toenail
Bunion on the little toe at the fifth metatarsophalangeal joint
Bunion on the big toe at the first metatarsophalangeal joint
Bursitis between the toe phalanges
1
2
3
Even when walking, there is a clenching movement of the toes, to take part 
of the weight off the metatarsal heads. Under certain conditions, such as, 
the clawed posture, the movement of the toes are no longer sufficient and 
pain is felt in the sole, at the metatarsal heads, which tend to squeeze the 
soft tissue that cushions them against the ground. The pain associated with 
this disorder is referred to as Matatarsalgia.
Solution: The only remedy for this type of disorder is to fit the appropriate sole.
Metatarsalgia due to strain on the metatarsus
An examination of the foot shows that in addition to the three support points noted above, there is a 
fairly narrow band running between the rear of the foot (around the heel) and the front (around the 
fifth metatarsal). This area of support then extends up to the head of the first metatarsal, following  
the heads of the middle metatarsals. A normal foot (B) has no medial contact with the ground between 
the first metatarsal and the heel. This is the area where the arch is, and its size varies according to 
whether the foot is claw (A), normal (B), or flat (C).
A claw foot (A) band is narrow and may become non-existent.  A flat foot (C) band can widened to the 
point of eliminating the cavity normally formed by the arch.
The foot is joined to the tibia, and also to the fibula, through the ankle bone, which is of great 
importance because through its links (articular surfaces) with the heel-bone and the navicular bone, 
it ensures the right distribution of movement and weight.
The foot is made up of 26 bones. The ankle bone is connected to the tibia, directly above  the ankle, 
and to the heel bone below the ankle.  On the inside of the ankle, it is joined to the medial malleolus 
and on the outside of the ankle, to the lateral malleolus. In the front of the ankle, it is connected with 
the navicular bone.
In addition to being joined to the ankle bone, the heel bone connects with the cuboid, which is in 
front of the ankle. The front the navicular bone is linked with three cuneiforms, while the cuboid is 
connected - again to the front of the ankle - with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. To their front, 
the five metatarsals, of all the toes, are joined to the proximal row of the phalanges. Ahead, are the 
middle and distal rows of the phalanges.  (The phalanx of the big toe, however, has only proximal and 
distal rows).  Coordinating these various bones are muscles, ligaments, and articular capsules.
A
B
C
PATHOLOGY OF THE FOOT
This section describes disorders of the foot that are most frequently observed and the methods used for reshaping 
the ski boot shell. It is recommended that people suffering from such disorders consult an orthopaedic specialist.
By dividing the foot into the front, the mid portion, and the back, we may identify different disorders. 
The more common disorders associated with skiing are described as follows:
Anatomy of the foot

PAGE 10
PAGE 11
DISORDER OF THE MID-AREA OF THE FooT
The center of the foot consists of three cuneiform bones, the navicular, and the cuboid, and its 
position corresponds approximately to the apex of the plantar arch. The main pathologies that afflict 
this area are:
In the case of a claw foot, or of thickening of the first metatarsal 
or of the first cuneiform, this area may rub against the ramp of 
the boot, thus causing the formation of bursitis (plate a). For tha 
same reason, if the area where contact occurs is more central, 
this would affect the tendons of the extensor muscles (plate b) 
of the toes, thus causing tendinitis of the extensors.
Solution: It is not possible to make alterations to the shell where 
the second buckle is postitoned because the reshaped plastic 
might not hold the rivets. The only possibility might be to relieve 
the pressure of the tongue at the critical point or to replace the 
inner boot.
Sometimes, adhering closely to the navicular, on the medial 
side, there is a bony protuberance which markedly increases 
the volume and causes the navicular to protrude at the edge of 
the foot. Sometimes, as in the case of flat feet, the navicular 
itself is hypertropic. This protrusion often gets rubbed, which 
leads to reactive bursitis.
Solution: Reshaping the side of the shell where the swelling 
occurs.
The base of the fifth metatarsal is normally the part that 
protrudes most from the outside edge of the foot. There are 
situations in which this bone, because it is malformed or badly
positioned, sticks out abnormally from the outer edge of the 
foot, thus leading to friction against the boot.
Solution: Reshaping the side of the shell where the swelling 
occurs.
Dorsal bursitis of the first cuneo-metatarsal joint
Bursitis at the navicular
Bursitis of the base of the fifth metatarsal
B
A
2
3
DISORDERS OF THE BACK OF THE FOOT
The back of the foot consists of two bones: the ankle bone and the heel. The disorders that affect the 
heel are:
The part of the heel that protrudes most is the rearmost part. 
This is the area that contains the Achilles tendon (plate b) 
and the sac through which it runs. When a change has taken 
place in the rear profile of the heel, the Achilles tendon and its 
sac are squeezed between the heel bone and the boot, thus 
causing inflammation of the retrocalcaneal sac, in other words, 
bursitis. In more serious cases, the inflammation also involves 
the tendon, leading to tendonitis.
Solution: Reshaping the back of the shell.
If the malleoli, especially the inner malleolus, are swollen, it 
is a result of rubbing from footwear, this may cause malleolar 
bursitis.
Solution: Reshaping the side of the shell where the swelling 
occurs.
Retrocalcaneal bursitis
Malleolar bursitis
Anatomy of the foot
Bunion on the little toe at the fifth metatarsophalangeal joint

PAGE 12
PAGE 13
KNEE & FOOT
DEVIATIONS
The legs are arched outward as knees are pushed to the outside. (More common in men).
Characteristics:
• Longitudinal higher arch 
• High instep, triggering most ski boots to be too tight over the instep 
• Difficulty rolling the forefoot, less shock absorption and decreased flexibility
Often times a high arched foot is too tight and stiff for the foot to properly flex and articulate in 
the ski boot.  Skiers need to be able to flex and articulate their feet in their boots to stay balanced 
and to navigate the variety of different terrain that is common on ski slopes.  A custom foot-bed is 
recommended to better support the plantar arch and will help distribute weight that is generally 
concentrated on the front and back of the foot.
In general, a normal or nuetral foot fits all ski boots without any particular pressure points or pain. 
More often then not, specific soles are not required for this foot type. However, the use of a custom 
foot-bed can allow for a better sensation on skis.
Most common foot deformation:
• Flattening of the plantar arch which widens the forefoot
• Pressure is generally displaced onto the 2nd and 3rd metatarsals
A skier with a pronated flat foot generally suffers from pressure points and pain on the inside anklebone. 
The foot can be repositioned with a custom foot-bed and given further relief by customizing the shell.
These knee deviations will result in ones skis not performing as they are deigned, subsequently 
corrections must be done.  This can be done by aliening the cuff, planing the sole or by adding shims 
under the boot lifter.  When sole modifications are done, make sure the boots sole, toe and heel hugs 
remain compliant with IOS 5355 Standard.  
The knees are collapsed to the inside and pushed together. (More common in women.) 
Varus Knees (Bow legged)
SUPINATED HIGH ARCHED FOOT
NORMAL FOOT / NEUTRAL
PRONATED FLAT FOOT
Valgus Knees (Knock Knees)
Flattening of the longitudinal arch
• Can cause weakness in certain muscles, ligaments and tendons
• Increased pressure on the entire internal medial section of the foot
• Loss of shock absorption and natural stability
A flat foot tends to pronate and tends to be extremely flexible. A custom foot-bed is recommended to 
better support the foot and to help improve sensation while skiing. Creating space in the medial ankle 
and navicular area will relieve additional pressure and stress if needed. 
FLAT FOOT
KNEE & FOOT DEVIATIONS
30
40
80
70 min.
L 2
boot sole length  L1
69 ± 2
69 ± 2
30 ± 1
19 ± 1
5 ± 1
45 °
50 + 1
8 ± 1
4 ± 1
7 ± 1
15 ± 2
L 1
< 300
≥ 300
L 2
100 min.
120 min.
Adult boot
type A
Standard Adult Alpine Boot according to DIN ISO 5355. 

PAGE 14
PAGE 15
ski boot
construction
A ski boot creates the connection between your body and your skis.  Ski boots must perform three 
important tasks to insure they are functioning properly.  One, they must fit well and be sized right. 
This means they are both comfortable, so there isn’t any pain or irritation while skiing and also that 
they are snug around the foot and lower leg. Two, they drive your skis in the direction you are steering 
them.  To achieve this, ski boots must be engineered to transmit energy from your body to the edges of 
your skis.  And finally, the sole of a ski boot has to correctly interface with your ski bindings to ensure 
the correct level of performance and safety.  
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1. Buckle
2. Cuff
3. Outsole or Grip Soles
4. Shell
5. Weather shield / Water protection
6. Ratchet
7. Liner
8. Power strap /Velcro Strap 
9. Adjustable Cuff Profile (ACP)
To assure the proper stance on your skis, all boots have a delta angle and a forward lean built into 
them. The inclination or forward lean of a ski boot is measured from the bottom of the foot (heel) to 
the top of the cuff. The ramp angle is the height difference between the bottom of the heel and the 
ball of the foot. (Base of 1st metatarsal)
Canting is the technical name for aligning the angles of your lower body to match your ski boots. 
As discussed in previous sections there is variety of different foot and leg angles ski boots must 
accommodate to ensure a correct standing position while skiing.  To achieve this, ski boots are 
designed to pivot on a lateral axis (and in some cases rotate on a horizontal axis, like with our Full 
Motion Pivot) from side to side to achieve angles necessary to match lower leg angles.  Planing the 
sole of the boot, adding shims between the boot lifter or sole plate and the shell or by adjusting the 
cuff alignment mechanism, can do this. Remember, if you have done any modifications to the sole of 
the boot; make sure you check to see if it’s still meets the IOS 5355 Standard. 
The liner of a ski boots is the most complex part of its design. It is made from a wide variety of 
materials such as ridged plastics, cork, synthetic fabrics, soft and dense foams among other materials. 
When all these different materials are stitched and glued together it creates a layer between the foot 
and the hard plastic shell that is customizable, comfortable and warm.  In general liners with more 
rigid or dense materials are higher performing and liners with softer, less dense materials offer more 
comfort for intermediate skiing. 
The Power strap or Power Driver is designed to connect the upper part of the liner with the upper of the 
cuff.  Fastened by either a clasp or by Velcro, the Power Strap or Power Driver provides adjustments 
necessary for the upper shin to properly and comfortably function with the liner and cuff.  
Buckles are adjustable aluminium levers, designed to tighten the shell and cuff of the boot around 
the foot and leg.  
The ratchet or buckle catch acts as the connector between the boot buckets and the boot shell and 
cuff. These are designed with multiple “teeth” to alter the tension needed to secure the foot in the 
boot.  
On several Nordica models we feature our Adjustable Cuff Profile, (ACP) designed to increase the 
circumference around the upper cuff to accommodate larger or lower position calves.  The ACP also 
corrects over inclination, common in skiers with bigger calves. Reducing inclination can help provide 
relief to over stressed quad muscles.   
Forward Lean/Ramp Angle
CANTING
Liner
Power Strap/Power Driver
Buckle
Ratchet/Buckle Catch
Adjustable Cuff Profile: ACP
ski boot Construction
FORWARD
LEAN °
RAMP
ANGLE

PAGE 16
PAGE 17
The shell of the boot is the external lower part of the boot, made of a specifically shaped rigid plastic 
material that is anatomically engineered to maximize comfort and power transmission. 
The liner and the plastic shell determine the fit of a ski boot and is measured by the sensation 
perceived while wearing the boot.
When choosing a good fitting boot:
• Make sure you have the correct size. It has been concluded up 60% of skiers have a boot that is  	
   too large for them. 
• The boot should be comfortable, with no hot spots or strong pressure points.
• When the boot is on the foot, it should feel snug and have a homogeneous hold around the foot.
• The boot should have noteworthy heel retention.
• The foot should sit flat or in its natural position.
• The boot should have a progressive flex and strong rear support.
• The boot should match the skiers performance level.
The last is the internal width of the boot at the widest point, which is located in the forefoot over the 
five metatarsals. The smaller or narrower the last, (ex, 93mm-95mm) the higher the boot performance 
level. In a narrow lasted boot, the foot is positioned closer to the shell, resulting in a quick and efficient 
power transmission to the edge of the ski. The wider lasted a boot is, (ex 102mm-104mm) the more 
comfortable, giving the foot more space to rest in its natural position.  It should be noted a boot last 
width is referenced from the middle “standard size” (26.5) and on average, increases or decreases 
by 2.5mm per shell size.
The flex of a boot is the sum of its progression, flex and rebound.  The higher the “flex” of a boot, 
the more rebound and forward resistance it will have. A boots flex is also controlled by temperature. 
The colder it is, the higher the flex becomes. The inverse happens in warmer temperatures, the boot      
becomes softer.  Adjusting a boots flex is one of the most common boot modifications and can be 
achieved in several different ways.
• Removing a cuff spine rivet
• Cutting material away in the “saddle” of the 
lower shell as depicted
• Tuning the flex adjustment feature where 
applicable 
Choice of flex:
Boots come in a variety of different flexes, 
ranging from soft to hard.
• Soft to medium. For beginner to intermediate 
skiers. 40-80 flex index.
• Medium to stiff. For intermediate to advanced 
skiers. 80-120 flex index.
• Stiff to hard. For racers or expert level skiers. 
120-150 flex index.
Shell
FIT
Last
Flex
EXTERNAL LAYER:
For pressure distribution and thermal insulation
MIDDLE LAYER:
For foot cushioning and power transmission
INTERNAL LAYER: 
For foot retention and comfort 
Liner Tongue Pull Strap:
Helps the foot to slide in the ski boot
Plastic Liner Tongue:
Anatomical construction and power transfer 
Internal Foam materials: 
For customization and securing the foot in 
position
Primaloft: 
To increase the thermal properties of the liner 
Soft felts and liner linings:
To improve comfort and the thermal properties 
of the liner
Reinforced Heel Construction:
Pre cut and stitched to easily apply battery 
operated boot heaters
Rear Pull Tab 
To aid in easy entry and exit 
There are several different layers and materials used in the construction of a liner.  Listed below are 
the key areas and components that are used.
The Liner
ski boot Construction
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
FLEX
BEGINNER
INTERMEDIATE
EXPERT
SKIER TYPE
JUNIOR FOOT GROWTH TIMELINE
AGE
GROWTH/MONTH
GROWTH/YEAR
1-3 years
1.5 mm
18 mm
3-6 years
1 mm
12 mm
6-10 years
1 mm
12 mm
12-17 years girls
+2%
-
12-17 years boys
+10%
-

PAGE 18
PAGE 19
To ensure we have the right liner for every foot shape and skier type, we have created the Nordica 
Fit Liner Program. Each liner we craft is designed to maximize both comfort and performance while 
offering a specific level of customization. The Nordica Fit Liner Program is offered in both men’s and 
women’s shapes and features four distinct liner constructions.
All Nordica liners featuring Primaloft® are highlighted with a logo flag stitched on upper part of the liner. 
80% of the liner produced with Primaloft® material
100% of innersole with Primaloft® material
Engineered for function, created for comfort, 
PrimaLoft® Gold Insulation Eco with Grip Control 
delivers performance by enhancing the warmth and 
comfort of insulation with the functionality of a slip-
resistant grip.
PRODUCT FEATURES
·	SLIP-RESISTANT TECHNOLOGY
·	ADVANCED THERMAL EFFICIENCY
·	EXCELLENT WATER RESISTANCE
Nordica Fit Liner 
Program
Cork
Thermoformable
Anatomically 
pre-shaped
OVEN
READY
3D Cork 
Fit
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Cork 
Fit
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3D Performance 
Fit
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Performance 
Fit
No
Yes
No
Yes
Precision 
Fit
No
Yes
No
Yes
Comfort 
Fit
No
Yes
No
Yes
PRIMALOFT®
PRIMALOFT® GOLD INSULATION ECO WITH GRIP CONTROL
Nordica Fit Liner  Program
PRIMALOFT
WOMAN’s LINER
Men’s LINER

PAGE 20
PAGE 21
1 - Carbon Performance Fit
Designed to be firm for increased power transmission, good plantar arch support and strong heel 
retention.
2 - Performance Fit
Designed to be firm to medium density for strong power transmission, medium plantar arch support 
and heel retention.
3 - Primaloft® Precision Fit
Designed with Primaloft® for medium power transmission and to improve warmth and cushioning.
4 - Precision Fit
Designed for medium power transmission and  to improve cushioning.
5 - Primaloft® Comfort Fit
Designed with Primaloft® for intermediate power transmission and to improve warmth, cushioning 
and support.
6 - Comfort Fit
Designed to maximize comfort.
FOOTBEDS
FOOTBEDS
1
4
2
5
3
6

PAGE 22
PAGE 23
InfraRed 
Fit Technology 
Instructions
InfraRed  Fit Technology Instructions

PAGE 24
PAGE 25
The true key in creating a custom boot design is not whether you can manipulate the natural form of 
a boots shell but rather, to create a boot design that can easily and effectively deliver the proper level 
of modifications, in critical areas, that will benefit not only the fit of the boot but will also enhance 
its  on snow performance and feel. For this reason, we developed our Infrared Heating Element and 
our Tri-Force shell, a combination of a boot design and a customization technology that would work 
together to deliver the perfect amount of customization only to areas of the shell where it’s needed. We 
created a system that is both accurate and easy to use, saving time and eliminating mistakes. The key 
component in achieving this is the Infrared Heating lamp, heating the plastic of the boot quickly from 
the inside out, at a perfect temperature. This allows the boot to remain undamaged by the heating 
element and for the customization to take a permanently defined shape.
•	Ask the customer to wear the boot, and with his/her help, identify the areas of pressure on the shell 
	 where customization is needed. Mark them if necessary with a pencil on the shell. Ask the customer 
	 to remove the boot and to leave the working area (figure 1). Remove the liner from inside the boot 
	 (figure 2).
•	Open the case and connect the power supply as indicated in the “Start-up” section above.
•	Take out the lamp and position it vertically outside the case (pre-heating position) as shown in figure 3.
•	Turn on the main switch (figure 4).
•	Set the timer for a period of pre-heating, by pressing the “Timer-(Pump)” button until you reach the 
	 number of minutes desired (figure 6):
	 - 6 minutes when the machine is completely cold (default setting)
	 - 2-3 minutes when the machine is only partially cooled
•	Press the “Heater- start/stop” button to start the timer and begin pre-heating.
•	Position the boot (without the liner) to the left of the case with the surface to be heated facing upwards 
	 (figure 5). When the pre-heating period has finished, the timer will buzz, and the heating will stop.
•	Set the timer for a heating time of 6 minutes (default setting, figure 6).
•	Position the lamp above the area to be heated, taking care to hold it exclusively by the handle so that 
	 the lamp spacer touches the surface of the shell in several points (figures 7 and 8).
•	Oversee the heating of the shell; if the surface of the plastic starts to become visibly glossy before 
	 the set time is up (figure 8), stop the heating process by pressing the “Heater- start/stop ” button.
	 When the heating period has finished, the timer will buzz, and the heating will stop. The aspiration 
	 pump starts automatically and remains on for a period of three minutes.
•	Move the lamp into a vertical position (pre-heating or cooling position, figure 3).
•	Position the suction cup on the area to be suctioned, taking care to apply suitable pressure around 
	 the cups edge, so that it adheres to the surface of the shell and is airtight (figure 9). At the end of the 
	 suction process (3 minutes), the pump will turn off automatically. 
•	Remove the suction cup from the shell and put it back in the case.
•	Put the liner back inside the shell of the boot.
The customer must not wear the boot at any time during the adjustment process.
After about two minutes, ask the customer to put the boot back on to check that the customization 
has been successful.
Put the lamp back in its position inside the case only after it has cooled down. Allow at least five minutes for cooling time.
Follow these steps 
for a perfect shell customization.
InfraRed  Fit Technology Instructions
1
4
7
10
2
5
8
11
3
6
9
12
• It is possible to choose between two types of suction cups of different sizes, both found inside the 
case, according to the area of the shell to be adjusted (figures 10 and 11). To use a different suction 
cup, pull the transparent tube until it comes out of the cup; insert the tube into the new suction cup, 
pressing hard and ensuring that the tube is fully insterted into the slot in the cup.
• It is possible to set the timer to a different heating time from 6 minutes.  You can set the heating 
time up to a maximum of 10 minutes. Press the “Timer” button once for each additional minute of 
heating time to be added. Once it reaches 10 minutes, the timer starts again from zero. The standard 
pre-set value is 6 minutes.
• The 6-minute heating time is indicated for a polyurethane shell wall approximately 4 mm thick. In order to increase 
the convexing effect, or in case of greater thicknesses, it is possible to set a longer heating time. Monitor the heated 
area during the heating process, if the surface becomes visibly glossy, you can simply stop the timer.
• It is possible to switch the suction pump on or off at any time, by holding down the “Timer (Pump)” 
button for at least 2 seconds.
• The process is guaranteed only for Nordica brand ski boots bearing the Infrared logo. Its use on other 
shells, of other brands or not bearing the Infrared logo, may cause the material to deteriorate (burn) or 
the shell wall may not be successfully reshaped.
Observations and recommendations

PAGE 26
PAGE 27
CUSTOM CORK FIT 
TECHNOLOGY PROCEDURE
CUSTOM CORK FIT TECHNOLOGY PROCEDURE
1.	PLACE CUSTOM CORK LINERS IN THE NORDICA OVEN; SET THE TIMER FOR 8 MINUTES 
2.	AFTER THE TIMER HAS SOUNDED, SLIDE LINERS BACK INTO THE SHELLS
3.	PUT THE BOOTS ON AND CLOSE THE BUCKLES FOR 5 MINUTES
PROCEDURE
TOTAL TIME
13’
5’
8’ x 80°C / 175°F
Engineered with the combination of a natural cork compound and a Pre Molded 3D laminate, our 
Custom Cork Liners create the perfect balance between comfort and performance while being 
completely customizable.
1
2
3
Can I use a traditional oven to customize Nordica Tri-Fit/Infra-Red Boots?
Yes. The customization results will be similar to other custom shell boots on the market, but this 
procedure will increase the entire volume of the boot and will stress the plastic where it is not needed. 
The Nordica Infrared Customization Technology is designed to modify only parts of the shell where it 
is needed and will maintain the integrity of the boots construction. 
Can the boot shell be modified several times?
Yes. You can modify the shell as many times as needed but remember, once you have added volume 
to the shell you can’t reduce the volume.
What is the maximum width the shell can be expanded out with the new Infrared Machine?
Up to 3 mm in the area being customized. 
What is the advantage compared to normal boot fitting?
The Infrared machine heats the plastic and the PU construction of the Tri-Force Shell design  remains 
molecularly unchanged thus the boots on snow performance isn’t sacrificed. Additionally, unlike other 
custom shells on the market, it allows the boot technician to focus customization only to areas where 
needed.   
If I have personal foot-beds should I use them during the customization process?
Yes. Using your personal foot-beds will give you a better fit than if you otherwise didn’t use them 
during the customization process. 
Does the plastic retract the same as normal boots when cooled?
No. The Infrared Technology penetrates the full depth of the shell so the plastic will not return to it’s 
original shape after being customized.  
What is the benefit of Infrared versus the liner Cork Fit? Should you do it before or after?
The Infrared shell is designed to be customized to meet any foot shape or volume needed. The Custom 
Cork Liner is designed to take the shape of the foot inside the liner but while not increasing the overall 
volume. The benefit of this system is the boot technician can use both the liner and the shell to mimic 
the exact shape of their costumer’s foot.  
How do I know when the plastic is warm enough?
Follow the heating instructions. The Nordica Infrared machine is engineered and calibrated specifically 
for Nordica Tri-Force shell constructions to ensure plastics are heated to the perfect temperature 
needed for customization.  
May I grind the shell?
Generally, grinding is not recommended on any boot as it affects the structure. Check the thickness 
of the material before grinding the boot. 4 mm is the minimum shell thickness required after grinding 
the boot.
FAQ: 
Tri-Fit Customization 
Technology


pjäxor pjäxor skidor pjäxor skiiboots skiiboots




Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
Om man har en bred for men smal ankel borde man ha Nordica cockmaster
